---
layout: page
title: "Bake usage"
category: setup
date: 2002-12-01 12:00:00
---

### Command line usage

Running `bake --help` will give you details of the command line arguments.

Generally you'll run `bake recipe.py spreadsheet.xls`.

By default, a CSV file is generated in the same folder as the spreadsheet called `data-recipe-spreadsheet.csv`. You can turn this off by putting `--nocsv` before the recipe.

You can also get a coloured version of the spreadsheet in the same folder called `preview-recipe-spreadsheet.xls` by using `--preview`.

The colours in a `--preview` spreadsheet represent:

* OBS, lavender
* DATAMARKERS, violet,
* TIMEs, light blue,
* TIMEUNITS, blue,
* GEOG, sea green.

You can also suppress some of the output by adding `--notiming`.

There's also a `--debug` option which will put you in a Python session with the tables loaded.

You can also pass parameters by putting them after the spreadsheet file name. You can access these in the recipe with `PARAMS()`.

#### Running from a Windows batch file

`bake` can be used in a batch file.

For example, if we place the recipes `earn01.py` and `earn03.py`
along with the relevant spreadsheets `table-earn01.xls` and
`table-earn03.xls` and add this batch file `process.bat` all
together in the same directory:

```sh
bake earn01.py table-earn01.xls
bake earn03.py table-earn03.xls
```

Running `process.bat` will then process both of the spreadsheets
with `databaker` in which they appear in the batch file.

It's also possible to run the same recipe on multiple files this way:

```sh
bake earn01.py table-earn01-2013.xls
bake earn01.py table-earn01-2014.xls
```

### Recipes

#### Recipe overview

Recipes are short Python scripts (text files) containing two functions:

* `per_file` which selects the tabs from a
  spreadsheet that will be processed;
* `per_tab` which defines the cells that contain the observations to be saved,
  along with the corresponding dimensions that will be recorded for each
  observation.

#### Downloading example recipes

Some example spreadsheets and recipes are available from [eot-recipes](https://github.com/scraperwiki/eot-recipes).

Or download them directly from [master.zip](https://github.com/scraperwiki/eot-recipes/archive/master.zip).

#### Making and editing recipes

You can use any text editor to edit recipes.

[Notepad++](http://notepad-plus-plus.org/) is a good one for Windows with syntax highlighting.

We recommend turning tabs into spaces:

Settings -> Preferences... -> Language Menu/Tab Settings -> Tab Settings (group) -> Replace by space

4-space tabs are standard in Python.

#### How many recipes to make

If a spreadsheet has multiple tabs, it may be possible to use the same
recipe for those tabs if they have identical (or very similar layouts).

In other cases, a spreadsheet may have tabs with very different layouts.
In this case, it's necessary to use `per_file` in the recipe to specify the
tabs that the recipe works with.

It's possible then that you may need to make multiple different recipes
to handle all the tabs of interest for a given spreadsheet. In the worst
case, you would then need one recipe for each tab you wish to extract.

