---
layout: page
title: "Installation"
category: doc
date: 2015-02-04 12:00:00
order: 0
---

### Operating system

EOT is designed to run on Windows 7. There's no specific reason it shouldn't
run on later versions of Windows, or even other operating systems, but it
was created for that version of Windows.

### Python

The easiest way of getting Python on Windows is to install [Anaconda](http://continuum.io/downloads).

Download the Python 2.7 installer for your OS: if not sure, try the 32-bit version.

The default options should work well.

### Language modules

From the Windows command line type:

```sh
pip install databaker
```

This will install databaker and all its prerequisites that aren't installed with Anaconda.

### Command Line

Running `bake --help` will give you details of the command line arguments.

Generally you'll run `bake recipe.py spreadsheet.xls`. You can use multiple spreadsheets (including wildcards).

By default, a CSV file is generated in the same folder as the spreadsheet called `data-recipe-spreadsheet.csv`. You can turn this off by putting `--nocsv` before the recipe.

You can also get a coloured version of the spreadsheet in the same folder called `preview-recipe-spreadsheet.xls` by using `--preview`.

You can also suppress some of the output by adding `--notiming`.

### Downloading examples

Some example spreadsheets and recipes are available from https://github.com/scraperwiki/eot-recipes 

Or download them directly from https://github.com/scraperwiki/eot-recipes/archive/master.zip

### Text editor

You can use any text editor to edit recipes.

[Notepad++](http://notepad-plus-plus.org/) is a good one for Windows with syntax highlighting.

We recommend turning tabs into spaces:

Settings -> Preferences... -> Language Menu/Tab Settings -> Tab Settings (group) -> Replace by space

4-space tabs are standard in Python.

